revamp/ install production (#439)
dgraph-io/dgraph-docs: content/installation/production-checklist.md

+++
date = "2017-03-20T22:25:17+11:00"
title = "Production checklist"
weight = 2
[menu.main]
    parent = "installation"
+++

> This guide describes important setup recommendations for a production-ready Dgraph cluster.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes important setup recommendations for a production-ready Dgraph cluster, ensuring high availability with external persistent storage, automatic recovery of failed services, automatic recovery of failed systems such as virtual machines, and disaster recovery such as backup/restore or export/import with automation.

```

### Cluster Requirements

A minimum of one Dgraph Zero and one Dgraph Alpha is needed for a working cluster.

There can be multiple Dgraph Zeros and Dgraph Alphas running in a single cluster.

### Machine Requirements

To ensure predictable performance characteristics, Dgraph instances should **not** run on "burstable" or throttled machines that limit resources. That includes t2 class machines on AWS.

> To ensure that Dgraph can take full advantage of machine resources, we recommend each Dgraph instance to be deployed to a single dedicated machine to ensure that Dgraph can take full advantage of machine resources. That is, for a 6-node Dgraph cluster with 3 Dgraph Zeros and 3 Dgraph Alphas, each process runs in its own machine (e.g., EC2 instance). In the event of a machine failure, only one instance is affected, instead of multiple if they were running on that same machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure that Dgraph is highly-available, we recommend each Dgraph instance be deployed to a different underlying host machine, and ideally that machines are in different availability zones or racks. In the event of an underlying machine failure, it is critical that only one Dgraph alpha and one Dgraph zero be offline so that 2 of the 3 instances in each group maintain a quorum. Also when using VMs or Docker/K8s, ensure machines are not over-subscribed and ideally not co-resident with other processes that will interrupt and delay Dgraph processing.
```

Reviewer 2: Note our own cloud infrastructure puts many pods on the same EC2 instance, but we ensure they are not over-subscribed. These days with docker, I think that's going to be common, vs dedicated physical or EC2 machines.

If you'd like to run Dgraph with fewer machines, then the recommended configuration is to run a single Dgraph Zero and a single Dgraph Alpha per machine. In a high availability setup, that allows the cluster to lose a single machine (simultaneously losing a Dgraph Zero and a Dgraph Alpha) with continued availability of the database.

Do not run multiple Dgraph Zeros or Dgraph Alpha processes on a single machine. This can affect performance due to shared resource issues and reduce availability in the event of machine failures.

### Operating System

Dgraph is designed to run on Linux. To run Dgraph on Windows
and macOS, use the [standalone Docker image]({{<relref "dgraph-overview#to-run-dgraph-using-the-standalone-docker-image">}}).

### CPU and Memory

> At a the bare minimum, we recommend machines with at least 8 CPUs and 16 GiB of memory for testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

We recommend 8 vCPUs or cores on each of three HA alpha instances for production loads, with 16 GiB+ memory per node.
```

Reviewer 2: Note we provision 2 vCPU clusters in our cloud offering, but recommend 8 vCPU for prod. We do not seem to require 3x HA instances for prod, but probably should.
